# Bike_Sharing_Data_Analysis_Tableau

Tableau Public link: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/ashok.thiruvengadam8175/viz/Bike_sharing_vFinal_16548624486480/BikeSharing

This data set contains hourly and daily count of rental bikes between years 2011 and 2012 with corresponding weather and seasonal information of Portugal.

The data set contains the following attributes: date, season (winter, spring, summer and fall) and for years 2011 and 2012, the day when the bike was rented: holiday, weekday, workingday, temperature, feel like temperature, humidity, windspeed, no of casual riders, no of registered riders and sum of total readers.

Data Set Information:

Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

Attribute Information:

Both hour.csv and day.csv have the following fields, except hr which is not available in day.csv

- instant: record index
- dteday : date
- season : season (1:winter, 2:spring, 3:summer, 4:fall)
- yr : year (0: 2011, 1:2012)
- mnth : month ( 1 to 12)
- hr : hour (0 to 23)
- holiday : weather day is holiday or not (extracted from [Web Link])
- weekday : day of the week
- workingday : if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.
+ weathersit :
- 1: Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
- 2: Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
- 3: Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
- 4: Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
- temp : Normalized temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t_min)/(t_max-t_min), t_min=-8, t_max=+39 (only in hourly scale)
- atemp: Normalized feeling temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t_min)/(t_max-t_min), t_min=-16, t_max=+50 (only in hourly scale)
- hum: Normalized humidity. The values are divided to 100 (max)
- windspeed: Normalized wind speed. The values are divided to 67 (max)
- casual: count of casual users
- registered: count of registered users
- cnt: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered

Data set link: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/bike+sharing+dataset

Story:
We are going to compare these different attributes in our upcoming dashboards and to uncover how weather affects ridership and forecast future riders who are going to use the sharing platform

Dashboard 1 
This dashbaord gives an oberview of registered vs casual riders, how windspeed affects riders and how humidity affects riders

We also wanted to take a look at humidity as well to gain an understanding of how that may affect ridership. As we can see in the graph to the top, right, humidity is not correlated to temperature. This is the case across all seasons:

*click on other seasons.
However, humidity does show a relationship to the dataset’s weather classification. Here we see that overall humitity is lowest during clear sky conditions, increases in cloudy conditions, and is highest during rainfall events. We also see that humidity also as a relationship to season, with winter being the most humid month, and spring being the least humid month. We also both from this vizualazation on the one on the bottom, that ridership is affect both by weather type and humidity. Ridership is higher on clear sky, less humid days, and lowerst on high humidity, heavy precipitation days. 

This led us to belieive that ridership increasas humidity decreases, so we took a look at this distrubution of ridership by humidity, and found that that’s not necessarilty the case, as this ridership by humidity was more normally distributed. 

*adjust the humidity to 0-0.5. 

It would appear that ridership tends to increase with humidity, until a high humidity becomes associated with a rainfall event, and then ridership decreases. 

We also wanted to look at how timing may affect ridership

According to our treemap at the bottom, leftt corner, Saturdays and Sundays had the highest ridership. This was an interesting finding becaause as we saw in our previous dahsbord, more riders are register riders than casual riders, and we may have expected higher instances of ridership during the work weeks, as register riders may use shared bikes to commute to work. We found this was likely not the case. 

Our top vizualization shows a heatmap by month, and by day type including hOlidays, weekdays, and weekends. We see ridership is higher during the summer months, and lower during the colder, winter months. We also see users are generally not more likely to use bikes on holidays, with the expection of the 4th of July. 

*click on holiday filter. 

This may be due to most holidays happening on Mondays which typically shows lower ridership

Our area map at the bottom right corner shows ridership by year. We see our same trend of higher ridership during summer months, and lower ridership during winter months. 

There also appears to be a an increase in ridership from 2011 to 2012. 

*filter by year

In both years, a weekend day has the highest ridership, so it still appears bike sharing is not used predomintantly for commuting, which would be a targeted market for increasing use. 

Finally we have predicted the total number of riders, casual andregistered riders for 2012 and 2013
